To my users:

  The software product to which this letter is attached is careware.
What that means, in this particular case, is that I would like to take this
opportunity to discuss an issue that affects children growing up in America,
where this software was developed, and around the world.

  In 2017 the House of Representatives in the United States voted to add male
circumcision to the list of actions which are protected under the
International Freedom of Religion Act of 1998.  This motion has set a
precedent for the rest of the world to follow that the cutting of juvenile and
infant boys' genitals is an acceptable religious practice, despite countless
medical studies which have shown it to have long-lasting physical and
psychological impacts on the men that those boys grow into, far outweighing
the oft-touted medical "benefits" of the practice.

  There is a reason why the equivalent practice, colloquially known as "female
circumcision" but more accurately as "female genital mutilation," is illegal
throughout the developed world, and why there are significant movements to
have it abolished everywhere else.  Unfortunately the United States appears to
be trying to shut the door on ever banning the practice of mutilating boys,
and are preventing those boys and men from ever seeking legal recourse with
which they may seek compensation or retribution.  In addition to being a human
rights violation, this will severely cripple us from abolishing female genital
mutilation elsewhere: We are in no position to protest female genital cutting
until we stop cutting our males.

  These issues don't just apply to U.S. citizens, either; as of 2017, even
though female circumcision has been abolished throughout the Western world and
most of Asia, male circumcision remains legal and largely uncontested all over
the world.

  If you like this software and would like to reward me for it by sending me
money, I would suggest instead giving to a cause fighting against genital
mutilation, of which there are numerous operating around the world.  Your
money would be much better spent on them than on me, as they do good work.

  Please also consider writing to your government representatives to let them
know that this is an issue you care about.  Stand up for your childrens' right
to individual autonomy, and send a positive, rather than negative message, to
the next generation.

  The only person who has the right to decide if you should be cut is you.
Amputation is a last resort; not cosmetic, not preventative, and not a
decision to be made lightly.  That's all I wanted to say.

  If you'd like, I give you permission to snip this "Letter from the Author"
out and send it to other people.  Help spread the word about this issue.
If you distribute this software, please leave this letter intact.  This is
careware, after all; if you take the "care" part away, then what's the point?

 - Philip Pavlick
